# Spring Security  
## Basics of Security in Spring  
### Authentication Filter will call ->  Authentication Manager will call -> Authentication Provider will call -> User Detail Service and Password Encoder  
### Authentication Filter -> has the security context that has both Authentication Success Handler and Authentication Failure Handler  

## 1. Simple basic security (Project name: basic-security)  

a. To enable security in spring all we need to do is add the following dependency in our pom.xml file 
```xml  
<dependency>  
	<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>  
	<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-security</artifactId>  
</dependency>  
```  

b. When we start the server we will get a "Using generated security password:". This is the autogenerated password which keeps changing on every server startup.  

c. When we access any resource from the server all we need to do is use the default user name "user" and the auto generated password when the server starts up.  

## 2. In-Memory Security (Project name: inmemory-security)   

a. The above security cannot be used for real time senarios and hence we move to our next type which is the custom in-memory security.    

b. For this we need to extend a Configuration class with WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter and then over ride the two configure methods.   

c. We also need to inject a bean for password encoder bean which is mandatory in Spring security now.  

## 3. Custom Authentication Provider (Project name: custom-authentication-security)  

a. Create a spring component class called CustomAuthenticaionProvider and implements org.springframework.security.authentication.AuthenticationProvider  

b. Override the following 2 methods:  
public Authentication authenticate(Authentication authentication) throws AuthenticationException {}  
public boolean supports(Class<?> authentication) {}  

c. Check code for details of implementation of these methods.  

## 4. Multiple Authentication Providers (Project name: multiple-authentication-security)  

a. Often we will have situations where we will have more than one way in which the user needs to be authenticated into the application. So we need to provide Spring security with multiple ways in which we can authenticate our users.  

b. This project is a combination of 2 and 3 steps described above.    
Only change is in the protected void configure(AuthenticationManagerBuilder authenticationManagerBuilder) throws Exception {}  method used in SecurityConfiguration file where we add our 2 authentication builders as below:    
authenticationManagerBuilder.authenticationProvider(customAuthenticationProvider);   
authenticationManagerBuilder.inMemoryAuthentication().withUser("b1").password(passwordEncoder.encode("b1")).roles("USER");    

c. The order of authentication checking will be the order in which we provide the Spring AuthenticationManagerBuilder our different methods of Authentication.   

## 5. Form based authentication (Project name: form-based-security)    
a. For form based authentication do the following in the configure method of the class extending the WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter     
httpSecurity.httpBasic() > Replace with  -> httpSecurity.formLogin();    

b. Now you will be presented with a login form automatically and once you login you will be redirected to the requested resource.   


## 6. Security Filters and Mulitple Spring boot security configurations (REST/WEB in same application) (Project name: spring-security-filter)   
a. For adding security filter all we need to do is add a class that impletements the Filter interface - eg. UsernamePasswordAuthenticationFilter, GenericFilterBean, OncePerRequestFilter etc.   

b. Here we can add anything related to security like  additional "http headers" or any other information that is needed before/after the request gets processed.   

c. In this example I have shown how to implement mulitple spring boot security configurations and ordering them using the @Order annotation. In this way we can clearly segreggate our REST apis from our web apis.   

d. I have added additional depenedency for my web page    
```xml   
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-thymeleaf</artifactId>
</dependency> 
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.thymeleaf.extras</groupId>
	<artifactId>thymeleaf-extras-springsecurity5</artifactId>
</dependency>
```   

e. I have added mulitple controllers, multiple security filters and multiple spring security configurations for both web and rest api based requests.   
All WEB request will now have the path /web/** and all API request will follow the path /api/**    

f. Also note that by adding the GenericFilterBean instead of Filter interface we can inject variables from our web.xml file using getters and setter properties.       

## 7. Multiple Password Encoders (Project name: spring-security-passwordencoders)   
a. I have added additional depenedency for support of SCryptPasswordEncoder     
```xml   
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.bouncycastle</groupId>
    <artifactId>bcprov-jdk15on</artifactId>
    <version>1.68</version>
</dependency>
```   

b. I have created a password encoder configuration class that supports 4 different types of password encoding based on the parameter that is set in application.properties file in the variable password.encoder   

c. I have also created a DelegatingPasswordEncoder as a default configuration and this takes its parameter from the DEFAULT_PASSWORD_ENCODER variable.   

d. In this way you can enhance your spring application to support multiple types of password encodings.   

## 8. Database Authenication Provider (Project name: database-authentication-provider)   
a. I have added additional depenedency for support H2 Database and Spring Data JPA over the already existing dependencies before.     
```xml   
<dependency>
	<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
	<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-data-jpa</artifactId>
</dependency>
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.h2database</groupId>
	<artifactId>h2</artifactId>
	<scope>runtime</scope>
</dependency>
```  

b. In the application.properties file add the following properties to enable h2 console and hibernate statistics:   
pring.h2.console.enabled=true    
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:h2:mem:testdb    
&nbsp;    
spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.generate_statistics=true    
logging.level.org.hibernate.stat=debug    
&nbsp;    
spring.jpa.show-sql=true   
spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.format_sql=true   
logging.level.org.hibernate.type=trace    

c. In the WebSecurity configuration add the addition antmatchers to enable h2 console url access from the browser without authentication for now:    
.antMatchers("/h2-console/\*\*").permitAll()   // never do this in production environment  
Also add the following 2 lines for the console to be accessed from the browser:   
httpSecurity.csrf().disable();    
httpSecurity.headers().frameOptions().disable();    

d. Add data.sql in the resource folder which will auto create the intitial database insert scripts once the server starts up.    

e. Start the server and check the following url to see if the h2 console is working fine.   
http://localhost:8080/h2-console/    

f. Now using spring data JPA concepts create Entities called User and Role. The User and Role are mapped to each other using ManyToMany mapping and it is specified both at the user and role entity class as follows:    
In User Table:     
@ManyToMany(fetch=FetchType.EAGER)   
@JoinTable(   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;name = "user_role",   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;joinColumns = @JoinColumn(name = "user_id"),   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;inverseJoinColumns = @JoinColumn(name = "role_id")   
)   
private List<Role> roles;   


And in the role table as:     
@ManyToMany(mappedBy="roles")   
private List<User> users;    

The role table also implements the GrantedAuthority interface and overrides the method getAuthority as follows:   

@Override
public String getAuthority() {   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;return name;   
}    

g. Now create spring repository interface for these two entities by extending the JpaRepository. In the UserRepository interface add the following additional method.   
User findByUsername(String username);    

h. Next create a service method called UserDetailsServiceImpl which implements the org.springframework.security.core.userdetails.UserDetailsService.   
Now override the method called loadUserByUsername that takes the username as input and returns the org.springframework.security.core.userdetails.UserDetails.   

i. Next all we need to do is inject this UserDetailService implemenation class into our WebSecurityConfiguration class and add it in the configure method as:    
authenticationManagerBuilder.userDetailsService(userDetailsService).passwordEncoder(passwordEncoder);      

We are now good to go and the application has now, one more method of authentication which is from the database.    


